Updated the core debugging to v9 and added more info about logging (#3527)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Fundamentals/Code/Debugging/index.md

---
meta.Title: "Debugging"
meta.Description: "Debugging in Umbraco"
versionFrom: 9.0.0
---

# Debugging

During the development of your Umbraco site you can debug and profile the code you have written to analyse and discover bugs/bottlenecks in your code or to help uncover what on earth is going wrong.

To perform proper debugging on your site you need to set your application to have debug enabled.
This can be done by setting `Umbraco:CMS:Hosting:Debug="true"` e.g. in `appsettings.json`  file:

:::warning
Debug should always be set to false in production.
:::

```json
{
  "Umbraco": {
    "CMS": {
      "Hosting": {
        "Debug": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Tracing

> Logging and tracing are really two names for the same technique. In Umbraco 8 and before, it was possible to something explict named tracing. This is not an option in ASP.NET Core and Umbraco 9.
> Instead you need to configure what log messages you wanna log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logging and tracing are really two names for the same technique. In Umbraco 8 and before, it was possible to do explicit named tracing. This is not an option in ASP.NET Core and Umbraco 9.
Instead, you need to configure what log messages you wanna log.
```

### Enabling Trace Logging

:::warning
Do not enable trace logging in your production environment! It reveals an awful lot of (sensitive) information about your production environment.
:::

We recommend at least logging the following namespace at minimum (Verbose) level to enable valuable trace logging:

```json
{
  "Serilog": {
    "MinimumLevel": {
      "Override": {
        "Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc": "Verbose"
      }
    }
  }
}

```
The logged messages can as always be monitored in the log viewer in backoffice

## MiniProfiler

Umbraco includes the Mini Profiler project in its core (see [https://miniprofiler.com](https://miniprofiler.com) for more details).
The MiniProfiler profiles your code method calls, giving you a greater insight into code duration and query time for (for example) underlying SQL queries.
 It's great for tracking down performance issues in your site's implementation.

### Displaying the MiniProfiler

> To display the profiler ensure that the configuration `Umbraco:CMS:Hosting:Debug` is set to `true` e.g. in you appSettings.json and then add `?umbDebug=true` to the querystring of any request.
> 
> Also ensure your template calls `@Html.RenderProfiler()` as one of the last things.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display the profiler ensure that the configuration `Umbraco:CMS:Hosting:Debug` is set to `true` e.g. in you appSettings.json and then add `?umbDebug=true` to the query string of any request.

Also, ensure your template calls `@Html.RenderProfiler()` as one of the last things.

```
